Welcome to the QuickTime Streaming
Server Programming session.
And we'll be covering the
QuickTime Streaming Server and
Darwin Streaming Server source
code and API programming.
One of the things that we'll be
covering is how you can add your code
to create your own server or modify
the existing server that is available.
And when you use
Darwin Streaming Server source,
you end up with a source code
that is available to you.
You end up with a server
that it can run on Linux,
OS X, BSD, Solaris, and Windows NT.
[Transcript missing]
You want to download this
and read it carefully,
follow the terms of the license,
then plan your changes
and your additions.
Go ahead, create your software.
If you find that you've
had to modify the server,
you will want to post that
you have modified the server
and make those changes public.
So that was our message from our sponsor.
The source that we'll be
talking about is the server,
of course.
You have your server
modules inside the server.
There are files that are specific to
porting the code to Windows NT or Linux.
You'll want to take a look at those
if you have different OS than the
ones that are already supported
in the build of the server.
You have the various protocols that
are supported inside the server,
so these files will be -- are
there when you download the source.
There's a client development library.
We use this library in our product,
in the QuickTime Streaming Server,
and it basically gives you
RTSP over RTP as a client,
some TCP skip protection,
if you want to see what a skip
protection implementation looks
like from a client's point of view,
there's the RTSP client
library in the source code.
There's a proxy server.
There's an MP3 and an
MPEG-4 file broadcaster.
You have the file parsing and
reading code that's inside the
source code when you download it.
And, of course, we have our web-based
server UI that's part of the
Darwin Streaming Server product.
So all of these are
available for you to look at,
use it as sample code,
or go ahead and change it,
modify it to whatever
needs that you have.
This is a diagram,
a high-level diagram of the
server and how it works.
And it is a module-based server.
There's very little, actually,
that the core server does.
It's just basically there to run
the modules and execute tasks.
Those tasks are actually
implemented in each of the modules
that is loaded into the server.
So we start out with our
clients connecting to the server
over the network protocol.
On the other end is the QTSS API that's
going to go ahead and call your modules.
Now, this is the core server,
the execution of the core server.
There's one process,
and it contains four main threads.
The one main, main thread is simply there
to watch the state of the
server and gather statistics.
So it's actually doing very little.
There's an event thread that's out there
using Select on Linux and POSIX systems.
It's using Windows Messages
and Mac OS X Event Queue to
find out if there's an event
that it needs to process.
And once an event happens,
like a read event, it will then go ahead,
find a task that's associated
with that file descriptor.
And then it will go ahead and
find the task that's associated
with that file descriptor.
And it's going to put it on
something called a task thread.
And the task thread is
actually going to do the work.
So the event thread,
after it grabs the event,
throws it onto a task thread,
is simply going to go back to sleep
again waiting for another event.
So there's just one event thread,
and all the work is done
by the task threads.
Those threads are going to be
running through their queues one
at a time and processing each task.
So, some servers out there will throw off
or fork a process for every request.
Our server, the QuickTime Streaming
Server/DaRwin Streaming Server,
has two threads.
There is, I mean, processes.
There is the parent process, which,
like the main thread,
is just checking the
status of something else.
In this case, it's the child process.
So it forks off the child
process and just waits to see
if the child process has died.
In the case of some unknown
reason that the child process
were to be killed or crash,
perhaps, the parent process would
go ahead and re-execute it.
Now, the child process is the server
that we were just looking at,
and it contains the task threads,
the event thread, the main thread,
and the idle task thread,
which is a variation on a task thread.
But there's only one task
thread per processor.
So that means all the work
is really done by the child.
So that means all the work is really
generally being done on one thread.
And this may mean that if you
have a module or if you're doing
something in the server and
it's going to take a long time,
what you want to do is possibly
create your own private thread.
And let's take a look at how
these threads can affect a module
or processing inside the server.
So let's switch over to demo one.
And I'm going to run a file
module that I have modified.
And what this module
is going to be doing,
is blocking in order
to do some long task.
Maybe what you can imagine it doing
is downloading a file from another
server before it can stream it.
So a request comes in,
and it's going to have
to download it first.
So I'm going to open up just
a regular movie file here.
Now I'm going to call my special module
that's going to go off and do some work.
So here it is,
and it's busy downloading this file.
And it's doing it in just a tight loop.
It's just going to block the whole server
because it's only the one task thread.
And it said, okay, when I'm done,
then I'm going to return from
the service call into the module
and respond to the request.
And you can see at that point,
what had happened to the previous
client who was busy watching
was that they were frozen.
So the server API does support having a
module take a little while to do things.
And the way we do that is we
provide a call called setIdleTimer,
which is going to tell the
server to call it again because
it's busy doing some work.
So, in this case, yeah, this,
the module might be busy
downloading something,
copying a file.
It could be doing a DNS lookup,
which is completely blocking the server,
but at least the whole
server isn't frozen.
So this is one of those things
you have to be aware of when
you're working in the server code.
Now, there is one last thing
I want to show you,
and that is what happens...
If you're going to make a call,
maybe it's get host by name,
where it's going to go and
you have no control over
when it's going to come back.
It could be 10 seconds from now.
How do you deal with that?
Since you can't,
in the middle of the call,
return control back to the server,
what you need to do then is
fork off your own thread.
Now,
the QuickTime Streaming Server source
code has an OS thread class,
so I just decided to use that.
And what I did was I just instantiated
the thread and told it to go
ahead and make my blocking call.
So in this case,
I have a tight loop that normally
would be blocking the entire server.
However, in this case,
because it's on its own thread,
I can still play movies.
So just something to think about.
There is, in most cases,
[Transcript missing]
So the reason for the number of threads
was to keep our thread count low,
and this is a performance
optimization in the server.
And the same idea is true when it
comes to having only one process.
The server runs faster.
It is much more efficient to
have fewer numbers of threads.
It just means that as a programmer,
you have to be aware of this
architecture and design appropriately.
So let's take a look
at the core server now.
We have
A few main objects that you're
going to see in the core server.
And the first one is the QTSS server.
This is the class that's going to get
instantiated and it's going to load up
each of the modules and execute them.
There are the callbacks.
This is the API.
So every time a module makes a
QTSS API callback into the server,
it's implemented in something
called QTSS callbacks.
We have QTSS dictionaries
in the core server.
These are data storage.
It's a key lookup with a
value associated with the key.
The QTSS dictionary, once again,
is there to support the API.
We have RTSP sessions,
which is the RTSP protocol
with the server supports,
and various other files
associated with RTSP that
protocol parsing and formatting.
There's RTP session,
yet another protocol class,
and its support.
Finally,
we have server preferences that basically
configure the server when it starts up.
So all of this actually could
be summarized that there's
a QTSS server class that's
going to load up your modules.
There's some API support classes that
provide your modules with roll calls
into the module and callbacks from them,
and protocol support
inside the core server,
followed by configuration preferences.
This is an example of the file module.
Every time we request a movie
from the Darwin Streaming Server,
it's going to go through a series
of calls into the file module.
In this case,
normally when you're looking at our API,
you're seeing the right-hand
side of this diagram,
which is the roll calls that this
module will be getting called in.
And these are the times in
which the module gets called.
What that means on the server
side is the QTSS server,
which we said owns the modules,
loads them up, is going to initialize the
module when it first starts up.
And after that,
the module has already decided that
it wants to handle RTSP requests
and has told the server that,
in the register role, that if there's an
RTSP request coming in,
I want to see it.
And I want to be able to process that.
So when an RTSP session gets initialized
on the server from an incoming client,
it's going to go ahead and call into this
particular module to handle the request.
In this case,
let's say it was a play request.
The module's going to take that,
process it, call it back into the server,
which will go to the RTSP session.
And in doing a QTSS play callback,
this is going to kick off the
RTSP session with the client.
What that means is now the server
is ready to respond to the client
with the play request response.
And then start calling into
this module for packets.
And so the next roll call that this
module starts receiving from the server
is going to be the send packets roll.
Basically,
the server's going to keep saying,
give me a packet, give me a packet.
And the module in that roll
call is going to go out,
find a packet for each of the streams,
and do a QTSS write.
So this covers pretty
much a basic module.
It's going to get loaded.
It's going to say, these are the rolls
that I want to support.
It's going to get called in those rolls,
and it's going to call back
into the server after it's
done its own processing.
So there are a number of modules
that are pre-built into the server.
When you launch the server,
there's several modules.
And I've categorized them by content,
support, and access control.
What we have is--
The content modules here,
which starts with the file module.
This is your basic module that
is going to do MPEG-4 streaming.
It's going to do 3GP support.
It does QuickTime movie file support.
It handles
describes for RTSP.
Basically, when it starts up,
just as we were saying before,
it's going to say,
I want to handle RTSP requests,
and I want to stream out packets.
So it's going to do those two roll calls.
The Reflector module
doesn't handle files.
What it does handle is
incoming broadcasts,
live streams.
It binds to a port.
It handles requests for STP files,
which then the Reflector module,
when it comes time to write packets,
is going to be pulling it from
an incoming broadcast stream and
sending them off to the client.
So that's why we call it the Reflector.
There's an incoming broadcast,
like a live broadcast.
And this module here is going to be
the one that's going to be sending
those packets out to the clients.
We have a relay module which is similar
to the reflector module except that
it has a built-in broadcaster as well.
What it does is it goes in,
it grabs a broadcast stream,
It's coming in and then it
forwards it on to another server.
It could actually be a multicast address.
So, in which case,
you could just go ahead and forward
it on to the multicast IP address.
But the idea here is that it's
pushing a broadcast someplace
instead of waiting for a client to
come in and request the broadcast,
which was the reflector module.
The MP3 Streaming Module is
another broadcast support module.
What this does is it grabs
an incoming MP3 stream,
kind of like an icecast or
shellcast type of stream that
might be sent to the server.
So each of these is going to handle
a request in a very particular way.
It's going to intercept the request,
decide if it belongs to itself,
and it's going to respond to the client,
and then handle the data.
Now we have some service support
modules built into the server.
Some of these, you know,
if you're thinking about
changing the server,
let's
Start here if it has to do with
access log or maybe pulling out
some statistics out of the server.
These modules are built into the server.
They're great pieces
of sample code for you.
There's the error log module,
which obviously is just going to go
ahead and record errors into a file.
But we also have the access log,
which has each access to a file
logged into the access log.
And maybe there's something in
there that you just need in addition
to what's already written out.
There's the average bit rate
or there's the time connected.
But maybe there's something else
that you want thrown in there.
Maybe the codec that was used.
Well, take a look at the access log.
Maybe what you need to
do is just change that.
Or you could go ahead
and rewrite your own log,
of course.
But this is built into the server.
It's there in the source
for you to take a look at.
There is also some other modules
like the webstats module.
It's a HTTP module that will
return an HTML web page.
And it will pull out some
information from the server
and generate the web page.
So a module isn't restricted
to streaming protocols.
There's a server that's
going to call your module.
You can decide whether or not
you want to handle RTSP requests.
Or you can decide you want
to handle something else,
like an HTTP request.
We have a web debug module,
an admin module.
The admin module is an interesting one
because what it does is it takes an
HTTP style request and uses and looks
for something called our admin protocol.
This is a URL based protocol
that references any of the
data that's in the server.
So this is how our UI is implemented.
Basically,
you can go ahead and grab anything
out of the server using the
admin protocol implemented in the
admin module and set it as well.
And you can do this
remotely if you want to.
Finally,
we have the POSIX file system module.
This one doesn't deal with requests.
It doesn't deal with logging.
What it is is a low-level implement
support for reading files.
So each of the modules that
are in the server call through
the API to read a file.
And it all gets funneled through
the POSIX file system module.
And this could be replaced so
that if you needed to do something
like a network file system,
you can go ahead and change this
implementation to do some other
kinds of file system calls.
Maybe you're pulling the data
out of a database instead of
coming right off the disk.
So once again, more modules that are
built into the server.
more functionality that
is available to you.
Finally,
we have the access control modules.
These start out with the access module,
which handles authentication
and authorization.
We have a Apache-style
users and groups file.
Basically,
it's going to go and check that
file to see if a user has access
to any of the movies on the server.
There's a home directory module.
This one takes a look
at the URL and says,
"Oh, do I have a tilde John in the
beginning of the path?" And it says,
"Okay, this means that this movie
is coming out of the user's
home directory movies folder,
not the main server's movies folder."
So what that does is it allows users
who have access only to their accounts,
their movie folders in
their home directory,
and not to the main server,
to put up movies onto the server.
And then everybody can reference them,
but they can only
administer what they own.
There is an HTTP file module.
It's kind of interesting.
It's a dynamic module.
We usually have it turned off.
What it does is allows
you to download a file.
So it's not a--it could be-- an example
would be like in a progressive download.
It also has the ability to, on the fly,
create a ref movie out
of a folder of movies.
So it actually pulls up,
takes the request, and says, "Oh,
this is a directory." And then it
looks inside that directory and says,
"Oh, I got three files here."
It creates a ref movie.
[Transcript missing]
The SpamDefense module is another
one of these optional modules
that comes with the source.
Basically,
it can limit the number of requests
coming out of a single IP address.
So if there's hundreds of play
requests coming out of a single
client and just spamming your machine,
the SpamDefense module can
put a clamp on that and say,
look, we're only going to allow 10 movies
being played from a single IP address.
So these are access
control types of modules.
There's the data ones,
the content modules,
there's the basic support,
and then access control.
So I'm going to go over and
switch back to our demo system.
And one of the nice things about
having the source code is that
if there's a behavior in the
server that you want to change,
then the code is there waiting for you.
And all you have to do is find the
right place to throw your code in,
and you can basically change
the behavior of the server.
So what I did is I said I wanted a file
module that every time I gave it a URL,
like "next," I wanted it to
give me a different movie,
like this one.
[Transcript missing]
So downloading the source and
going in there and saying,
OK, before I pass the file name
off to the open file command,
I want to be able to replace that.
OK.
Couple lines of code, swap that in there,
and now I've got a new
behavior in my server.
Now, you might want to
create this as a module,
or you might, if you have complete
control of the server,
then go ahead, change it.
It's all right there.
Add your behavior.
Now, another module that I had
mentioned in our talk earlier
was that the Web Stats module
And that's a dynamic module.
We can...
You see some of these modules
installed on the system.
These are dynamic modules here.
Basically what that means is every
time you throw them into this
module folder and launch the server,
they're going to be executing
when the server runs.
These are other modules that
can be thrown in there and run.
And once again, these are all part of the
Darwin Streaming Server source and
are available to you to look at,
modify, use, or change.
So getting back to that WebStats
module that's in the server,
what we can do with that
is go ahead and call it.
Let's see.
[Transcript missing]
What we're doing here is we're
waiting for the system to come back
from doing some sort of network I/O.
Okay.
Now I have a server back again.
So what I have inside of -- on the screen
here is an admin module request into
the server to find out a preference.
And this module preference is WebStats,
and I'm going to take a look
at what it's going to show me.
Okay,
so this module just grabbed the request
coming into the server and said,
"Hey, it's web stats.
I'm going to handle it." And what it's
going to do is it's going to respond,
but instead of a -- since this was
an HTTP GET coming into the server,
what this module decided to do
is it's going to generate an
HTML web page and send back some
information about the server.
Now,
maybe what it could have been doing is
copying a log file on demand over to some
other machine that's collecting all these
statistics or doing something like that.
This module here,
or maybe this command was
coming in from another UI.
Somebody has integrated the
QuickTime Streaming Server administration
into their user interface for controlling
multiple servers or something like that,
and this module perhaps
is supporting that.
So once again,
there's various ways in which you
can access and control the server,
and
This is one of them.
Just toss a module in there,
and away you go.
You have a new feature inside
a QuickTime Streaming Server.
So we can switch back to slides.
Okay,
so the server is a thin piece of code,
but there is actually,
in terms of when it's executing,
but there is a lot already built into it,
stuff that maybe you don't
want to have to rewrite,
and if you have the opportunity,
you want to be able to use.
So that means that we are going to
be supporting RTSP over TCP for you,
RTP over UDP.
Apple's skip protection
is built into the server.
That's RTP over reliable UDP.
What that means is there's UDP packets
going out with acts coming back,
and the server has the ability to
do retransmits using this protocol.
There's RTP and RTP tunneled in HTTP,
which is basically how do
you get around firewalls.
There's RTP over RTSP,
which is RTP on top of TCP.
So these are all standard protocols,
streaming protocols,
and they're built into the server.
It automatically will
handle these connections.
Now, one of the protocols that it doesn't
automatically do for you is HTTP.
Basically, there's a request coming in,
but it itself is not going
to do anything with it.
If you happen to have
a module that wants to,
basically,
you would grab that request and decide
based on the URL whether it was meant
for you or not and do something with it.
So, one example is the QTSS admin
module that's going to look for a
URL path and it's going to decide,
"Yes, this is a path that belongs inside
of the server and I'm going to
go ahead and respond to it."
The MP3 Streaming Module is another
type of HTTP support module.
It looks for IC protocol requests that
are coming into the streaming server.
Websats Module, we just looked at that.
And so on and so forth.
There's other types of modules here.
The refmovie module is going
to take a HTTP GET on a file,
a movie file,
and generate a RTSP request.
Send that back in the
response to the GET,
and that tells the QuickTime client, "Oh,
what I really should be doing here is not
a GET but an RTSP on the file." And it
turns around and makes the RTSP request.
Looks like we have web sets twice.
And a web debug module.
So that's very similar to the web stats,
except it gives debugging information.
When the server is compiled
with debug enabled,
the debug module is going to show
up with an HTML web page for the
programmer to see real time what the
memory allocation in the server is,
maybe how many file descriptors are open,
things like that.
There are, of course,
other ways of getting
that type of information,
but this is one way in which -- a
handy way in which this can be done.
Okay,
so the server has these roll calls that
it's calling each of the modules in.
The roll calls look like,
here's a request, here's a route roll,
which is sort of a prerequest call.
And along with each request is going
to be something called a QTSS object.
And these are inside of the server.
Basically,
a dictionary that goes with each of
the classes that the server supports.
So there's the QTSS server class,
and it has an implementation
called the QTSS server interface.
That's the dictionary that's
going to support the API.
We have RTSP sessions that get
generated whenever a client connects.
There's an RTSP session interface
that goes with that class.
It's an RTSP session interface.cpp file.
And basically what that is,
it's a dictionary implementation
for the API to access the data
that's in the RTSP session object.
Same is true with RTP session,
another type of protocol management
class that's in the server.
And for every request,
there's a request object that
shows up inside of our API that
has an interface file associated
with it that's a dictionary that's
That gives access to the data.
So here's the object hierarchy
that's built into the server.
You have your main server.
Once again,
the server object has a QTSS interface
file associated with it.
It contains modules, server preferences,
and client sessions.
When we look at the server object,
we'll be able to pull
out the client sessions.
We can pull out the server's
preferences that are currently active.
We can grab each of the modules
that the server is running.
And then within the modules,
there's preferences for each module that
is instantiated inside of the server.
So what that means is
when you create a module,
you can say, hey,
I want to have my module's
preferences added to the
server's XML preference file.
And there's an API call
to allow you to do that.
All of our modules that
come in source code do this.
So that means that...
The preference is for your module
or immediately configurable or
editable by the admin protocol,
meaning a user interface can go in there
and remotely configure your preferences
without you ever having to write anything
to support remote admin of your module.
The client sessions, of course,
you might want to find
out some information about
the stream in real time.
What's the current bit rate
of the stream or the session,
all the streams that are currently
playing for a given client?
And so the dictionaries
give us this ability to walk
this tree of data real time,
pull it out of the server,
and if you want to log it or use it
to maybe limit the number of users,
you know,
finding that the current bandwidth
is just getting too high,
and real time you want to start
limiting the server in some way by
number of users or by bandwidth,
you can go ahead and change the
data that configures the server
real time by accessing our user.
data hierarchy.
So I want to use the admin module
that we've been talking about just
to show you what some of these...
objects look like.
And basically, the admin module takes
this admin protocol,
which is a URL-style request,
and maps that to the hierarchy
that's inside the server and
pulls out the information,
and can actually set it too.
So if I wanted to grab the server object,
and I want all the fields
within the server object,
I'm going to fire off a
request to the admin module,
and here it is.
So now it's giving me back
everything that it knows about.
One of the things it has inside the
server object is the list of modules.
So there's a dictionary.
Up here at the top, I can see my path.
There's a dictionary key called
the server module objects,
and here are my modules.
If I were to drop a server module,
I would have to drop a server module.
Stop the server,
drop a new dynamic module
into my modules folder,
and relaunch the server,
it would show up in this list.
Now, each of these modules
has its own preference,
and let's see if I can pull that out.
It has many different layers,
but each module, you can see,
has all of its settings and can
be configured here remotely.
So none of the modules
really have to worry about,
gee,
how am I going to configure this thing?
It's easily configurable once
it's loaded up into the server.
And since this information is written
back out to the server's XML file,
it can be edited even when
the server isn't running.
It can change the XML file
to modify the preferences.
So let's take a look at a stream.
And I want to see the sessions
that are currently running.
I have one client-server session.
I want to drill down into that session.
Okay, so I have some session
information right now.
I have a URL.
Looks like I have an average bit rate,
a movie file size.
I want to take a look at the streams.
Looks like there are two streams.
I want to see if I can find the codex.
Looks like I have an MPEG-4 codex.
It looks like an MPEG-4
video that's playing.
So, for every single stream that's
currently playing on the server,
I can grab real-time information.
I'm doing it through a module.
If you have a module
that's currently running,
its job is to be monitoring how
many people are watching this
particular movie right now and maybe
I need to start redirecting clients
someplace else or maybe I just
need to start denying clients.
Imagine a module doing that.
[Transcript missing]
The API common code,
all of the modules use it.
It's basically there for
sets of API calls that kind
of seem to go together.
And, you know, I want to create a new
preference and set its value,
and this is where usually we throw those
types of commonly used code together.
So you might want to go ahead
and see if there's any of that
code in there for your module
that you want to use or emulate.
The API modules themselves,
the implementation for all
the modules I've shown you,
is in this directory.
You can just walk through there,
do a grep, just browse it,
and pull up the source
for any of the modules.
RTSP ClientLive is...
It's just a library,
but basically when you instantiate it,
it's going to give you the
ability to connect to a streaming
server as an RTSP client.
You can tell it to do a describe.
It will get back the SDP response.
You can ask it to start playing,
and it will pull down a RTSP stream.
It will do it over any of the
protocols that the server supports.
So this is how we test out
our server using this library.
If you tell it,
"Instantiate something from the
RTSP client live to connect and
download over TCP," it will do that,
or in HTTP using reliable UDP, perhaps,
or skip protection.
That's the RTSP client live.
The server actually uses
it in a couple of places.
One of them is in the relay.
The other is in our file broadcasters.
In particular,
the playlist broadcaster has a built-in
client and it uses RTSP ClientLib.
And one last piece,
the streaming load tool is a
little piece of binary code that
goes out and does load testing.
And we use the
RTSP ClientLib in that tool.
So RTCP utilities,
if you're interested in
RTCP protocol for some reason,
maybe there's a bug in the server,
who knows, but the code is there for
you to take a look at,
fix, or change if you need to.
Same thing is true with HTTP.
And so that's the top level of
the source tree as you untar it.
When you go ahead and build our code,
you're going to end up with more
than just a streaming server.
You have the playlist broadcaster,
which is like the name says,
it takes a playlist of movie files
and concatenates them together
and streams into the server.
And these can then be turned around
by the server to support each client
that may be requesting the live stream.
Actually, it's a pseudo live stream,
of course.
The playlist broadcaster will
loop the list of movies if
that's what you ask it to do,
so it will have this continually
running playback of some keynote
speech or something like that.
Also, there's an MP3 broadcaster,
which is the same idea,
except it's doing it for MP3s instead
of MPEG-4s and QuickTime movies.
We have a streaming proxy,
and that source code is there.
There's Qt file tools.
Those are for those people, once again,
who are interested in the MPEG-4
movie file format and want to
see how it goes out and extracts
the packets out of the files.
These tools basically are command
line tools that you can go ahead
and rip out streams of packets
from any given hinted file.
The web admin is our user
interface that we provide with
the DaRwin Streaming Server.
So let's say you want to personalize
or privatize the web admin,
so it doesn't say
Apple QuickTime Streaming
Server all over it.
You want to throw in
your own UI to the HTML.
This web admin is in the source.
You can go ahead and change it.
As well as the Qt password file.
It doesn't really do much.
If you want to add users and groups,
you run the Qt password file.
If you don't like the
format for some reason,
go ahead and change it.
If you want to use our code, fine,
it's there.
Or you can replace it, of course.
So one of the things that you might
want to do is just change the name if
you're deploying it with your product.
Your QuickTime or DaRwin Streaming
Server doesn't really work for you.
You want to call it My Demo
Server or Your Server.
And so you can go ahead and
change those constants that
are available in the server.
There's a few places you have
to go and look for things.
If it's OS X, you want to look in the
project builder file.
There's -- if you're
dealing with the web admin,
then you're going to be looking in the
profile that is part of the web admin.
There's basically the installer scripts.
You can find it pretty much
by doing a find text and file.
And so then you can package
it up and distribute it with,
you know,
maybe your hardware server product
or something like that that shifts
with the DaRwin Streaming Server.
Once again, building the software,
we have a buildit script.
This is what you would run at
the command line to build our
POSIX version of the server.
You would just find
the script and run it.
It also works for OS X.
If you don't want to use
the project builder project,
you can just execute
from the command line,
rebuild the binaries, and test it.
It will show up inside of
a build directory on OS X.
On Windows NT,
it's a little bit different.
We have a Windows NT support directory.
So those of you who are building
your software for Windows are
going to go down in there,
find your Visual C++
project or worksheet,
load that up.
You want to do a batch build,
and it's going to generate a
debug and release directory and
throw all the binaries in there.
So once you have your software built,
you want to be able to
create an installer.
Now, at this point,
it kind of goes into how
do you want to do it.
The pre-built binaries that Apple has
on our site for you to download are all
created using this build tarball script,
which goes ahead, builds it,
generates an install directory,
tars it up,
and then you go ahead and download it,
untar it, run the install script,
and it goes ahead and fills it up.
And that would be for the POSIX platform.
On OS X,
we have a script that's going to build
an OS X installer package for you.
So it's going to go off and
do all the pieces and throw it
into this installer package.
The important piece about the build
OS X installer package is that there is
some logic when it's installing as to
how to upgrade existing installations.
or what to do about
So, I'm going to start off by setting
it up with the proper users and
groups that the server might need.
On OS X, for example, and version 5,
we're going to be running as user QTSS,
and the installer package will
make sure that that user is on the
machine so that when the server runs,
it can go ahead and stream.
Windows NT,
we just use a make zip package
that the bat file goes ahead
and organizes the files for you.
You might want to edit
or change that yourself.
So we're going to move
on to troubleshooting.
So after you've gone through,
you've created your module,
you've edited things, you've built it,
you've created an installer.
If you find that you need
to troubleshoot the server,
there's some commonly used
debugging preferences that we have.
And the first three that I have
here have to do with protocol.
And the first one is RTSP debug printer.
So I just want to see if I can do that.
And the second one is RTSP debug printer.
And the first one is RTSP debug printer.
So I just want to see if I can do that.
Now, just following that is the
packet header printout.
So, the actual data packets themselves,
you don't want to -- it will -- just like
the RTSP printfs will show you the RTSP,
the packet header printfs are
there to show you the media packets
that are being sent by the server.
So that means that if
there's an RTP packet,
a receiver report, a sender report,
an application packet or an ACK,
the ACKs are for the skip protection,
then you'll see them as they come
into the server or get sent out.
And if you do have these on,
you want to be able to see them,
you're going to need to run
the server in debug mode,
which means at the command line,
add a dash D.
Okay, so I'm going to just turn on the
debugging printfs here just to
show you what they look like.
I'm going to go ahead and add, um...
[Transcript missing]
So at this point,
what we should have is a streaming
server that has our debug printfs in it.
Whenever it wakes up.
Let's try a different URL.
Oh, there it is.
Okay.
Okay, so we don't need this anymore.
Okay, so the RTSP debug printfs.
We have an RTSP request here.
Describe and some more information.
And a file module that accepted
it and sent back something called
a SDP right here to the client.
And this is just handy information
that as you're debugging your module,
you might need to take a
look at these requests.
So another type of request
I'm going to try is
[Transcript missing]
Okay, looks like what happened
is it started playing.
started playing and it
looks like it's streaming,
but I just didn't HTTP get.
So we can take a look at what all
this thing is doing by looking
at our RTSP debug printers.
It looks like a GET went to the server
and a module there picked it up and
returned the HTTP GET with an RTSP URL.
: I guess that means that
what I should be doing is an
RTSP describe with this URL.
So this could be a redirect, actually.
It's not an RTSP redirect.
What it is is an HTTP GET that
contains a redirect in the response.
Now,
you can imagine this module that happens
to be available inside the source code.
It's called the refmovie module,
being used in lots of different ways to
generate different redirects or different
types of responses to the client so that
you can go ahead and have it RTSP to some
other movie or some other server even.
So that was how we take a
look at what's going on in the
server when we're debugging the
using the RTSP debug print apps.
And let's go back to the slides.
And in the slides we'll take a look
at a couple more debug printfs.
Basically, you can turn these on when
you compile the server.
One of the useful ones,
if you have a module that's
doing something kind of tricky,
it's handling a lot of
different roll calls.
Maybe it has its own threads.
You might want to take a look at
when it's actually getting executed.
And the way to do that is
find in our common utilities
the base class for a task,
which is the basic entity that's
getting executed in the server.
And if you would turn
on the debugging there,
you'll find all these printfs
that show up that say,
oh, the server is working on
an RTSP session right now,
and there's an access log call
right now that's being executed.
So you can find out exactly when all
the modules and what their interactions
are by turning on this debug printfs.
In the file source,
there is also another handy little flag.
You can turn this on and you can
pretty much see what the reads -- what
kind of reading is the server doing.
How often is it hitting the disk?
Is it reading all over the place or
does it seem to be reading sequentially?
How is the caching working in the server?
And this is the file source debug.
There might be some reason where you
are transferring the reads off to
maybe a database or something like
that instead of the file system,
and you want to see how the reads
are being handled in the server.
So another debug option for you.
So as I was talking about
the server and its protocols,
I mentioned RTSP, RTP, SDP,
Session Description Protocol,
and all of these have RFCs
available on the Internet.
So if you want to take a look at the
protocol and find out more about what
clients might be doing with the server,
what the server should be doing,
or what you can do to change the
way the behavior of the server,
you can take a look at
these RFCs up on the web.
There's some other open source
projects that handle RTSP and RTP.
One of them is the
MPEG-4 IP on SourceForge.
So they have an open source client that
actually will play the audio and video,
and it will work with
our streaming server.
It's an open source client.
In fact, they even have an encoder,
I believe, as well.
So they're related.
Streaming sources are resources that
you can find out there on the Internet.
Live media is yet another one.
These are open source.
And we interoperate because
we have our standards base.
So as you can see, there's RFCs.
When it comes to Codex,
MPEG-4 is a standard that we believe
strongly in and our server supports.
So the programming for our
QuickTime Streaming Server is
essentially just a matter of going
in there and getting the source code,
looking at the modules,
finding out what we already are doing,
thinking about what we want,
you want the server to be doing,
and go ahead, change the code,
add your module, add your functionality,
and now you have a new server.
And we hope that we can
add more functionality to
the server for you as well.
But we have -- we're making progress.
Each year there's new
features into the server,
and we're working on that.
[Transcript missing]
So just as a side note,
you can see the big yellow ball there.
The QuickTime feedback
forum has changed venues,
so we will be moving to the
marina as soon as we finish
with this conversation here.
Since most of these
presentations already happened,
I just want to remind you that
as attendees to the conference,
you will be getting access
to the stream versions of the
presentations in the next few weeks.
So if you missed any of these or you want
to go back to see what was mentioned,
something that you missed,
this will be the opportunity to do it.
And you will also be receiving a
package of DVDs that contain all
the sessions of the conference.
So this is coming to you in a few weeks
more than the download streaming movies,
which will be quite
opportune for this session.
So if you have any other questions
or if you need some information,
QuickTimeMan@Apple.com is the address
that you want to write any questions,
and we'll try to route
them to the right people.
people.
Documentation.
Apple QuickTime is the main page
for any information on QuickTime.
Developers.apple.com documentation is
for general documentation on QuickTime.
I don't think that we have
anything special for this session,
but again,
as attendees to the conference,
there is a number of downloads that
are available only to you right now.
So you have to go to
the connect.apple.com,
log in as a member of ADC,
and you will get the download
under the WWDC 2003 menu.
More information.
There is a streaming server mailing list.
If you want to have a conversation
with all your colleagues all over the
world who are using the technology,
more information on what to get
for the streaming server modules.
We are getting to the
ending of the conference,
but you still have a day to go
to the QuickTime lab downstairs.
It's in the Sacramento room.
And have an engineer in there
to answer your questions
about QuickTime programming.